# Philip J. "Holler back now!" Hollenback

philiph@pobox.com  
San Francisco Bay Area  
[http://www.linkedin.com/in/philiph][]

## Overview

I'm a senior system administrator and team leader
[with a focus on DevOps](http://www-03.ibm.com/innovation/us/engines/solutions.html?csr=agus_mmlobtivoli-20111123&cm=k&cr=google&ct=USBRB301&S_TACT=USBRB301&ck=tivoli&cmp=USBRB&mkwid=safMdNA7M_8645040437_432ak82469). Recently I moved from being a tech lead to
managing a small group of highly skilled people. I love working with
Linux and writing scripts to [manage large-scale deployment issues][].

## Experience

### [Yahoo][], Sunnyvale CA

#### Manager, Release Management - September 2011 to present

I manage a team of three people who are responsible for software
releases across all of Yahoo Communications (including Mail and
Messenger). My team sets standards for software releases, plans the
releases, and pushes the software to production servers. We regularly
push changes to 10,000 servers a week. I cover everything from planning
our strategic projects to writing perl scripts to analyze install logs.
I also coordinate the activities of our Sunnyvale and Bangalore Release
Management teams.

*Highlight*: Wrote a series of perl scripts to analyze mail farm
software release quality. Trained Release and QA teams to use these
scripts to automate release testing, resulting in a 75% reduction in QA
support requests to my group.

#### Tech Lead, Release Management - July 2008 to September 2011

Responsible for assembling, verifying, and scheduling software releases
for approximately 10,000 servers. Develop release and monitoring scripts
in Bash and Perl. Perform all types of Linux and FreeBSD system
administration from remote installs to performance tuning. Act as
liaison between Mail operations and development. Debug and fix
large-scale user mail problems.

*Highlight*: Technical lead on year-long project to convert all 7000
mail front end systems
[to a new rules-based configuration management system][]. This
involved  extensive scripting, tracking down dependencies, and
validating system installs of several thousand software packages.

### [Schrodinger][], New York, NY

#### Senior System Administrator - August 2005 to July 2008

Support 30 users and 100 mixed Linux, Unix, and Windows servers and
workstations. Install, configure, and administer several cluster systems
running ROCKS, PBS Pro, and SGE. Install and administer United Devices
GridMP grid computing system.

*Highlight*: Planned and implemented office and network move between
floors of midtown Manhattan office tower. This included designing and
configuring a server room for several hundred systems (including two
clusters) with full AC and UPS support.

Schrodinger is a leader in developing chemical simulation software for
use in pharmaceutical and biotechnology research.

### [Telemetry Investments][], New York, NY

#### Senior System Administrator - July 2003 to August 2005

Administered mixed Linux and Windows environment of 7 users. Planned and
installed disaster recovery site. Managed Linux software packaging and
migration from Solaris to Linux for servers and workstations.

*Highlight*: Specified and built Linux WAN routers to connect main
office to disaster recovery site. These routers connect 4 T1 and 1 T3
line between sites using commodity hardware. Created custom Linux
install based on Fedora Core 1 to run on 256MB flash hard drives. I
wrote a Linux Journal cover story on this project, see the publications
section below for details.

Telemetry Investments is a hedge fund which manages over $100 million in
funds for institutional and private investors.

*previous positions listed in [my linkedin
profile][http://www.linkedin.com/in/philiph]*

## Skills

Proficient in perl and bash scripting for linux system administration.
Experienced in administering a wide range of operating systems including
RedHat Linux and FreeBSD, with an emphasis on large-scale deployments
and automation. Focused on maximizing uptime on production web servers
while also deploying code quickly and reliably.

## Education

Bachelor of Science in Computer Science from The University of Montana.
Emphasis in Artificial Intelligence. Minor in English Literature.
Graduated 1996.

## Associations and Publications

Active member of the [League of Professional System Administrators][].

I write technical articles for blogs and magazines such as Linux
Journal, emphasizing open source software and hands-on solutions. See
[www.hollenback.net/index.php/MyArticles][] for details.

  [http://www.linkedin.com/in/philiph]: http://www.linkedin.com/in/philiph
  [with a focus on DevOps]: http://www.hollenback.net/index.php/DevOpsMeansDontBeAnAhole
  [manage large-scale deployment issues]: http://www.hollenback.net/index.php/ServerLoadSpreading
  [Yahoo]: http://www.yahoo.com
  [to a new rules-based configuration management system]: https://db.usenix.org/events/lisa10/tech/full_papers/Hollenback.pdf
  [Schrodinger]: http://www.schrodinger.com
  [Telemetry Investments]: http://telemetry-investments.com/
  [League of Professional System Administrators]: http://lopsa.org
  [www.hollenback.net/index.php/MyArticles]: http://www.hollenback.net/index.php/MyArticles
